add add'l info to SL qs (#5175)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/snippets/_sl-test-and-query-metrics.md

Support for running [MetricFlow commands](/docs/build/metricflow-commands) in the dbt Cloud IDE is not available but is coming soon. 

You can use the **Preview** or **Compile** buttons in the IDE to run semantic validations and make sure your metrics are defined. Alternatively, you can run commands with the [dbt Cloud CLI](/docs/cloud/cloud-cli-installation) or with SQL client tools like DataGrip, DBeaver, or RazorSQL.

:::

<Tabs>

<TabItem value="cloud" label="dbt Cloud">

This section is for people using the dbt Cloud CLI (support for dbt Cloud IDE is coming soon). With dbt Cloud:

- You can run MetricFlow commands after installing the dbt Cloud CLI. They're integrated with dbt Cloud so you can use them immediately.
- Your account will automatically manage version control for you.

Refer to the following steps to get started:

1. Install the [dbt Cloud CLI](/docs/cloud/cloud-cli-installation) (if you haven't already). Then, navigate to your dbt project directory.
2. Run a dbt command, such as `dbt parse`, `dbt run`, `dbt compile`, or `dbt build`. If you don't, you'll receive an error message that begins with: "ensure that you've ran an artifacts....".

> 3. MetricFlow builds a semantic graph and generates a `semantic_manifest.json` file in dbt Cloud, which is stored in the `/target` directory. If using the Jaffle shop example, run `dbt seed && dbt run` to ensure the required data is in your data platform before proceeding.

Reviewer: i believe in this case we use title casing since this is the name of our example restaurant (proper noun)

```suggestion
3. MetricFlow builds a semantic graph and generates a `semantic_manifest.json` file in dbt Cloud, which is stored in the `/target` directory. If using the Jaffle Shop example, run `dbt seed && dbt run` to ensure the required data is in your data platform before proceeding.
```

> 1. **Installation** &mdash; Make sure you've installed the [dbt Cloud CLI](/docs/cloud/cloud-cli-installation). Then, navigate to your dbt project directory.

Reviewer: i see what you're doing here but the construction, layout, and font decoration is uncommon for a set of steps. consider constructing this slightly differently. 

```suggestion
1. Install the [dbt Cloud CLI](/docs/cloud/cloud-cli-installation) (if you haven't already). Then, navigate to your dbt project directory.
```

Author: fair point, i played around with it and knew it was diff to the others but wasn't sure if having the steps bolded would help orient users so went with it for the greater good.

:::info Run dbt parse when you make changes to metrics

> Anytime you make changes to metrics, you need to run `dbt parse` at the minimum. This ensures the `semantic_manifest.json` file is updated and you can have your changes reflected when querying metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anytime you make changes to metrics, you need to run `dbt parse` at a minimum. This ensures the `semantic_manifest.json` file is updated and you can have your changes reflected when querying metrics.
```

> 2. **Initial command** &mdash; Run a dbt command, such as `dbt parse`, `dbt run`, `dbt compile`, or `dbt build`. If you don't, you'll receive an error message that begins with: "ensure that you've ran an artifacts....".

Author: ```suggestion
2. Run a dbt command, such as `dbt parse`, `dbt run`, `dbt compile`, or `dbt build`. If you don't, you'll receive an error message that begins with: "ensure that you've ran an artifacts....".
```

> 3. **Semantic graph and manifest** &mdash; MetricFlow builds a semantic graph and generates a `semantic_manifest.json` file in dbt Cloud, which is stored in the `/target` directory. If using the Jaffle shop example, run `dbt seed && dbt run` to ensure the required data is in your data platform before proceeding.

Author: ```suggestion
3. MetricFlow builds a semantic graph and generates a `semantic_manifest.json` file in dbt Cloud, which is stored in the `/target` directory. If using the Jaffle shop example, run `dbt seed && dbt run` to ensure the required data is in your data platform before proceeding.
```

:::

> 4. **MetricFlow confirmation** &mdash; Run `dbt sl --help` to confirm you have MetricFlow installed and that you can view the available commands.

Author: ```suggestion
4. Run `dbt sl --help` to confirm you have MetricFlow installed and that you can view the available commands.
```

5. Run `dbt sl query --metrics <metric_name> --group-by <dimension_name>` to query the metrics and dimensions. For example, `dbt sl query --metrics order_total --group-by metric_time`.
6. Verify that the metric values are what you expect. To further understand how the metric is being generated, you can view the generated SQL if you type `--compile` in the command line.

> 7. **Commit changes** &mdash; Commit and merge the code changes that contain the metric definitions.

Author: ```suggestion
7. Commit and merge the code changes that contain the metric definitions.
```

> 5. **Query metrics** &mdash; Run `dbt sl query --metrics <metric_name> --group-by <dimension_name>` to query the metrics and dimensions. For example, `dbt sl query --metrics order_total --group-by metric_time`.

Author: ```suggestion
5. Run `dbt sl query --metrics <metric_name> --group-by <dimension_name>` to query the metrics and dimensions. For example, `dbt sl query --metrics order_total --group-by metric_time`.
```

> 6. **Metrics verification** &mdash; Verify that the metric values are what you expect. To further understand how the metric is being generated, you can view the generated SQL if you type `--compile` in the command line.

Author: ```suggestion
6. Verify that the metric values are what you expect. To further understand how the metric is being generated, you can view the generated SQL if you type `--compile` in the command line.
```

> 7. **Commit changes** &mdash; Commit and merge the code changes that contain the metric definitions.

Reviewer: sugg: update constructions for these steps for consistency

Author: updated teh steps and folded in - can yourereview @nghi-ly ! tysm!

8. Run `mf validate-configs` to run validation on your semantic models and metrics.
9. Commit and merge the code changes that contain the metric definitions.

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

> To streamline your metric querying process, you can connect to the [dbt Semantic Layer APIs](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/sl-api-overview) to access your metrics programmatically. For SQL syntax, refer to [Querying the API for metric metadata](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/sl-jdbc#querying-the-api-for-metric-metadata) to query metrics using the API.

Reviewer: sugg: for conciseness (repeated info)
```suggestion
To streamline your metric querying process, you can connect to the [dbt Semantic Layer APIs](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/sl-api-overview) to access your metrics programmatically. For SQL syntax, refer to [Querying the API for metric metadata](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/sl-jdbc#querying-the-api-for-metric-metadata).
```
